\section{Tensions and Outlook}

Anti-involution targets the wrong end of the problem. It can discipline the price competition that drives margins below zero. Insufficient domestic demand stays untouched, and that is the deeper issue. Raising quality thresholds and facilitating consolidation does not create buyers.

The most likely trajectory is a muddled middle on the domestic front. Solar manufacturing may see partial rationalization as small firms exit, but the EV sector is harder to consolidate because local governments hold stakes in regional automakers. No official wants to close a factory that employs constituents and generates tax revenue, even if the factory cannot turn a profit.

The more interesting adjustment channel may lie abroad. Chinese EV supply-chain firms invested more overseas than domestically for the first time in 2024 \citep{IEA2025GEO}, and industry estimates project overseas manufacturing capacity belonging to Chinese automakers will roughly double by 2026. BYD alone is building or planning plants in Thailand and Hungary, with further investments announced in Turkey and Brazil. This outward FDI is partly tariff-driven: firms localize production to circumvent the trade barriers that finished-goods exports now face. But it also represents a structural shift. If Chinese firms relocate a portion of their capacity to Southeast Asia and Latin America, they may endogenously relieve some of the domestic overcapacity pressure that anti-involution was designed to address. The Global South remains broadly open to Chinese clean-technology imports; over half of the growth in Chinese EV exports in 2025 came from non-OECD markets. For these countries, affordable Chinese solar modules and batteries are a path to electrification that no Western supplier currently matches on price.

This outward shift changes the nature of the problem rather than solving it. The overcapacity is partially externalized through relocation rather than absorbed through domestic demand growth. The distributional conflict between Chinese producers and Western competitors does not disappear; it migrates to new geographies. And the fiscal incentives within China that drive local officials to build capacity remain intact. Outward FDI relieves pressure. It does not fix the valve.

Genuine structural reform would require raising the household share of national income through expanded social insurance and fiscal restructuring away from land-sale dependence, coupled with a relaxation of financial repression. Each is politically difficult because each redistributes income away from the state sector. Anti-involution asks none of these questions.

Yet the campaign does reveal something about the state's capacity for self-correction. The same apparatus that created globally competitive green-manufacturing sectors now attempts to regulate the overcapacity it produced. The industrial-policy state is turning its own tools inward. Whether the correction holds depends less on administrative will than on whether domestic consolidation and outward FDI together can absorb the surplus that domestic consumption cannot. The precedents for demand-side reform are not encouraging: China has discussed rebalancing toward consumption since at least the 12th Five-Year Plan (2011--2015), and the household consumption share of GDP has barely moved.

What's visible is a Chinese industrial sector adapting to the constraints it faces, finding new outlets for overcapacity rather than addressing its origins.
