\section{Anti-Involution as Domestic Response}

\subsection*{The policy and its instruments}

``Involution-style competition'' (\textit{neijuan shi jingzheng}) describes a pattern in which firms compete on price and scale alone, compressing margins without generating productivity gains. No firm gains a durable advantage because competitors match each price cut: the equilibrium is a race to the bottom in which every participant loses margin and no one gains market power. The result is value destruction rather than creative destruction. Anti-involution is Beijing's label for this pathology, and its policy response.

Central authorities moved to address involution on two tracks. The first is administrative. In July 2025, a State Council executive meeting on the new-energy vehicle industry called for curbing ``irrational competition'' and announced strengthened cost surveys and price monitoring across the NEV supply chain \citep{StateCouncil2025NEV}. In January 2025, the NDRC issued guidelines for building a unified national market, targeting local protectionism and regional market barriers that fragment domestic demand and enable duplicated capacity \citep{StateCouncil2025Market}. Specific instruments include tighter safety and quality standards (revised EV standards take effect in 2026) and merger facilitation, with local-government performance evaluation to shift from output quantity toward quality metrics.

The second track is more market-oriented in design. The revised Anti-Unfair Competition Law, adopted in June 2025, prohibits platform operators from forcing merchants to sell below cost and restricts large enterprises from abusing their bargaining position against smaller suppliers. A concurrent overhaul of the Pricing Law aims to establish legal liability for predatory pricing and other ``involutionary'' practices. These provisions move beyond administrative guidance and toward enforceable legal rules. I take the legal track seriously. If enforced, it would introduce a rule-of-law floor beneath pricing behavior that the administrative instruments alone cannot provide. But enforcement must run through local courts and agencies that answer to the same officials whose investment incentives drive overcapacity in the first place. The gap between legislative intent and local implementation has been a recurring feature of Chinese economic governance.

\subsection*{The MITI analogy and its limits}

A serious counterargument holds that anti-involution represents genuine policy learning: a maturation from quantity-maximizing industrial policy toward quality-focused upgrading. The analogy to Japan's MITI is tempting. During the 1960s and 1970s, MITI used administrative guidance to curb ``excessive competition'' (\textit{kato kyoso}) in steel and automobiles, facilitating consolidation that contributed to subsequent technological upgrading \citep{Johnson1982}.

But did MITI succeed because of administrative coordination alone? Japan's story involved several things at once. Keiretsu organization concentrated decision-making, an open American export market absorbed output. The financial system channeled household savings toward industry at low cost. All of these mattered. I emphasize one factor that gets less attention in the standard account. Japan's industrial consolidation coincided with one of the fastest sustained increases in household living standards in economic history, and rising domestic incomes absorbed much of what industry produced. MITI could consolidate supply because demand was growing fast enough to make the consolidated firms profitable. China faces the opposite. Household consumption remains around 39--40\% of GDP, far below advanced-economy benchmarks \citep{WorldBank2025}, and the household savings rate sits at approximately 34\%, against a global average of roughly 24\% \citep{MERICS2025}. As \citet{KleinPettis2020} argue, financial repression and the systematic channeling of income toward investment are structural features of the growth model. Consumption is suppressed by design.

A fair objection is that this framing is too narrowly domestic. China is not betting on Chinese demand alone; it is betting on global green-transition demand. If the world triples its installed solar capacity and electrifies its vehicle fleet on the timeline climate policy requires, Chinese firms with today's surplus capacity will be well-positioned to supply that demand. The bet may prove right over a decade or more. But it does not solve the near-term problem: the interim costs of financing idle capacity and sustaining loss-making firms fall on Chinese taxpayers now, while the trade retaliation those exports provoke falls on Chinese exporters. And the bet itself is partly self-defeating, because the trade barriers Chinese overcapacity provokes are precisely what could prevent the global market from reaching the scale that would justify the capacity.

Anti-involution may slow the price war among EV manufacturers. It cannot create the domestic buyers those manufacturers need. The textbook prescription would be to raise the household share of income through fiscal transfers and expanded social insurance, coupled with a relaxation of financial repression. None of these appear in the anti-involution policy toolkit.

Scale compounds the difficulty. MITI coordinated a handful of firms in a few sectors; China's overcapacity spans hundreds of cities and thousands of firms \citep{MERICS2025}. The fiscal architecture of the state works against compliance. Local governments depend on land-transfer fees and industrial-project revenue, and the tournament mechanism documented in Section~1 persists because these fiscal incentives persist. Anti-involution creates a principal-agent problem: Beijing issues the directive, but the agents who must implement it are the same local officials whose budgets depend on the investment the directive is trying to restrain.

I therefore read anti-involution as primarily a correction within the existing system, blending administrative discipline with emerging legal instruments but leaving the demand side untouched. It may reduce the worst price wars and, if the legal reforms are enforced, establish a floor beneath pricing behavior. But production capacity that exceeds domestic demand, sustained by a growth model that favors investment over consumption, is left intact. Whatever the domestic market cannot absorb will find its way abroad.
