\section{Global Spillover: Downward Price Pressure}

\subsection{China Shock 2.0}

When \citet{AutorDornHanson2013} documented the original China Shock, the story was straightforward: WTO accession accelerated a trade shock rooted in comparative advantage in labor-intensive manufacturing, and American workers in competing industries paid the price. Two decades later, the shock has returned in a different form. What China now exports in volume is capital-intensive green technology: the ``new three'' of EVs, batteries, and solar PV. The goods have changed. The disruption has not.

I stress the continuity because the underlying mechanism is different enough to obscure it. China possesses genuine endowments in engineering talent and scale economies, but the policy apparatus described earlier amplified these advantages through directed capital allocation and protected domestic markets. The current shock is not purely market-driven. It combines real cost advantages with policy-amplified capacity expansion. The welfare calculus is more complex than in the original episode because the goods carry positive externalities: cheap solar panels and batteries slow climate change. The original China Shock asked whether cheap manufactures justified displaced workers. This one asks the same question with an additional complication.

\subsection*{Strategic entry versus residual exports}

Not all Chinese green-tech exports reflect the same dynamic, and the distinction matters for policy. Some firms built export-oriented capacity strategically, planned before domestic margins collapsed. BYD's plants in Thailand and Hungary are examples: deliberate market entry into new geographies, the kind of outward FDI that any capital-exporting economy would produce. Others are redirecting output abroad because the domestic price war left them unable to sell at home. This second category is closer to loss-tolerant export competition, where firms accept margins below long-run average cost and the soft budget constraint extends their survival horizon well beyond what private capital markets would finance.

Trade statistics do not distinguish between strategic entry and residual dumping. In practice, firms optimize across domestic and export markets simultaneously, and the same firm may be strategic in one market and residual in another. But the structural point holds regardless: when aggregate capacity exceeds domestic absorption, the export market functions as a pressure valve, and the pressure is downward on prices.

\subsection{Evidence of downward price pressure}

Chinese export volumes in clean-technology sectors have risen sharply since 2022 while unit values have fallen. The USCC documents this pattern across several sectors \citep{USCC2025}. \citet{RotunnoRuta2024} provide econometric evidence that the relationship is systematic: Chinese industrial subsidies are associated with increased export volumes and depressed export prices in subsidized sectors. The direction of the effect is what the earlier sections of this essay would predict. Subsidies expand capacity beyond what domestic demand can absorb, and the surplus enters world markets at prices that unsubsidized competitors find difficult to match.

A note on terminology. I avoid ``exported deflation'' because the phrase implies a general price-level effect. What is occurring is a decline in the relative price of clean-technology goods in world markets: a terms-of-trade improvement for importing countries but a deterioration for China and for competing producers elsewhere. The policy problem is sectoral adjustment, not macroeconomic deflation management.

\subsection{The green-public-goods counterargument}

The strongest objection to treating overcapacity as a problem runs as follows. Cheap Chinese solar panels and batteries accelerate global decarbonization, particularly in developing countries that cannot afford unsubsidized clean technology. On standard trade-theory grounds, a subsidy on goods with large positive externalities may be globally welfare-improving. For many countries in Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, affordable solar modules are the difference between decarbonized electrification and continued fossil-fuel reliance.

Yet the welfare case is less clean than this framing suggests. Adjustment costs fall unevenly: workers in European solar-module assembly or American EV-component manufacturing bear concentrated losses while benefits diffuse across consumers, replicating the distributional pattern that made the original China Shock politically corrosive. Dependence on a single subsidized source also creates supply-chain vulnerability, most acute at upstream chokepoints such as polysilicon refining where Chinese dominance is most pronounced. The trade-policy responses already deployed, meanwhile, are fragmenting the very markets through which welfare gains would flow. The United States imposed a 100\% tariff on Chinese EVs in 2024 \citep{USTR2024}; the European Union adopted definitive countervailing duties ranging from 17.0\% for BYD to 35.3\% for SAIC \citep{EC2024BEV}. In a first-best world, importing countries would accept subsidized goods and compensate displaced workers through domestic transfers. No major economy has chosen this path. The tariff responses actually observed are second-best policy driven by political-economy constraints: governments respond to concentrated producer losses rather than diffuse consumer gains. The irony is that the welfare benefit of subsidized overcapacity depends on open markets, and the overcapacity itself is provoking their closure. The subsidy that was supposed to accelerate decarbonization is instead accelerating trade fragmentation.

This leaves the system in an unstable position. Domestic demand cannot absorb the capacity, and export markets are fragmenting under tariff pressure. The question is whether China's policy apparatus can reform the growth model that created the problem, or whether it will settle for managing the symptoms.
