\section{Introduction and the Policy Engine}

China accounts for more than 70\% of global electric-vehicle production \citep{IEA2025GEO} and holds more than 80\% of manufacturing capacity across key solar PV supply-chain stages. One policy apparatus built both positions, but the same apparatus has also created chronic overcapacity and price wars that now spill across borders.

From an economic perspective, China's phenomenon of ``involution'' is, in essence, a long-term imbalance between supply and demand caused by excess supply and insufficient demand, resulting in excessive, ineffective competition. Chinese-style involution is not caused by any single factor; rather, it is rooted in the interaction between China's institutional structure and its growth model. Market mechanisms are unable to correct this imbalance. Under conditions of excess supply and insufficient demand, the marginal returns on individual input decline, thereby triggering irrational internal depletion. My argument is that the anti-involution campaign Beijing announced in 2025 amounts to a supply-side reform \textit{within} the industrial-policy state. The demand-side imbalance that makes overentry profitable goes untouched. So anti-involution disciplines the worst of the domestic price wars while the global economy absorbs the rest as downward pressure on traded-goods prices.

How does overcapacity get produced? The sequence starts with central-government target-setting. Made in China 2025 and the ``new three'' designation (electric vehicles, lithium-ion batteries, solar PV) tell local officials where state resources will flow. Competition for official promotion in China was based primarily on the GDP growth rate of the locality for which officials were responsible \citep{FangLiWu2022}. Under this system, the performance evaluation of local government officials was highly centered on the short-term goal of economic growth. In pursuit of maximizing political achievements during their terms of office, local governments competed with one another, actively intervened in the market, and provided large amounts of ``gray subsidies'' to enterprises within their jurisdictions. These ``gray subsidies'' include land concessions, loans at below-market interest rates, state-owned enterprise equity participation, and tax reductions, all used to attract investment and generate local GDP. Although China's central government has stated that GDP growth will no longer be used as the main criterion for official promotion, the endogenous motivation of local officials to pursue short-term growth is difficult to fundamentally change. The outcome is parallel investment in the same industries across dozens of provinces.

These gray subsidies distort the market mechanism's function of market selection. They have led to redundant construction and resource misallocation in many industries, causing resources to be allocated to less efficient areas. In the past, Chinese local governments encouraged infrastructure investment in order to increase local GDP, resulting in serious overcapacity in industries such as steel and cement. Market fragmentation caused by China's vertical and horizontal administrative segmentation compounds the problem further. State-controlled banks and local government financing vehicles keep lending for political reasons, so firms that should fail keep running. \citet{BranstetterLi2022} find exactly this for Made in China 2025 targets: subsidized firms invest more, but they do not consistently become more productive. \citet{BranstetterLiRen2022} confirm the pattern more broadly.

The last piece is the gap between what China produces and what its own consumers can absorb. China's economy in recent years has entered what is known as the ``new normal.'' Growth has fallen from the double-digit rates of the past to around the official 5 percent target. Uncertainty about economic growth prospects, the withdrawal of foreign-invested enterprises, the closure of private firms, and young people's lack of hope regarding employment and the future, have all weakened consumer confidence. Precautionary saving has risen and household spending has stagnated. China's real estate market has continued to decline in recent years, with an increasing number of property developers experiencing debt crises. This has severely affected household balance sheets, as real estate is the largest form of household savings for Chinese residents. The shrinking of household wealth has directly weakened households' consumption capacity. Due to insufficient confidence in the future economy, combined with the negative wealth effect caused by shrinking assets, consumer behavior has shifted toward downshifting in household consumption. At the same time, as local governments' revenues from land finance have sharply declined, some localities have introduced various new fines or raised public service fees in order to increase revenue, indirectly pushing up the costs of manufacturing and transporting goods. Under the pressure of weak domestic demand and rising costs, enterprises can only be forced into price wars, and when the domestic side is structurally short, the surplus shows up as export pressure abroad.

\citet{FangLiLu2025} add that local governments systematically copy each other's industrial policies, multiplying the problem across hundreds of cities. \citet{RotunnoRuta2024} find these subsidies are associated with increased export volumes in the subsidized sectors. The ``new three'' are the obvious place to check.
